Hello, everyone, and welcome to a special episode of the LibriVots Community Podcast.
I'm your host, Carrie, also known as Carrie Maistreb on the forums.
This month's theme is Beyond the Mic, exploring how better social connection can improve LibriVots.
In this episode, we're diving into how we, as LibriVots volunteers, connect beyond our
recordings and discuss ideas of how we can improve our connections as well.
We'll hear from LibriVots volunteers about what social connection means to them, what's
worked in the past, what hasn't, and ideas on how we can build a stronger, more inclusive
space for everyone, whether you've been here for 15 years or 15 minutes.
Alright, now let's hear from our community members as they reflect on this topic.
How does social connection affect our experience as LibriVots volunteers, what works, what could
be improved, and how can we create a space for everyone across generations, languages,
and time zones feels welcome and inspired.
To start us off today, we have a contribution from Peter, also known as Peter Y in the forums.
What do you have to say about this topic, Peter?
Well, the only social aspect of LibriVots that I've been involved with was long years ago,
when, for about three years, a group of readers living within Reach of London came together
to make recordings. The meetings were a pleasure and a lot of fun. I had the impression that,
generally, it was difficult to find anything which would involve three to five people,
enough to keep the group meetings interesting. Plays were the most obvious projects,
but we needed roughly equal contributions for everyone, so we'd have to search for
appropriate material once we knew how many we were. It was sometimes frustrating to find
something appropriate, and sometimes someone got a really minor part in a play and probably felt
that they'd wasted their time. We just gradually stopped meeting. I tend to feel as an online group
is almost by definition not a sociable structure, although individual friendships can develop,
especially between solo readers and their DPLs. I think I've only taken part in one Zoom meeting,
possibly during the COVID lockdown. It wasn't recorded.
Thanks, Peter, for your contribution. Up nuts, we'll hear from Bob Cherney.
Bob, what are your thoughts on this topic, and since you are the featured LibriVots volunteer
of this podcast, please tell us a bit more about yourself.
The resources available from Project Gutenberg were of great assistance in my research while
working on my novels set in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. The Project Gutenberg
homepage refers to LibriVox, where I found it. I have self-published 24 novels and self-narrated
18 of them. After narrating the last of the novels I intended to narrate,
I searched for something else to do. I remembered the link from Project Gutenberg and signed up.
In high school, I hung out with a group of amateur radio operators and learned microphone
technique. In college, I had a radio show on the college's FM radio station and relearned
microphone technique. After mustering out of the Air Force, I went to work for Ringling Brothers,
Barnum and Bailey Circus World, where I did not use microphones but supported those who did.
I left Circus World to help open the first, full-time, privately-owned convention center
in Orlando. Think about that. The Orange Orlando County Convention Center was five years away.
As the technical director of a full-service convention center with a 2,000-seat theater,
I had a wide range of responsibilities, some of which involved speaking before the public
from the security of the audio control booth and some of which had me on the stage in front of the
audience. Audio systems were part of my daily life. After leaving the convention center,
I found that I had an inordinate amount of time on my hands. One of my business school instructors
told me that my writing was so good that sometimes he was more interested in how I wrote than what
I wrote. It was not a compliment. With little else to do, I started to write a book using characters
from my experience. I knew that unless I made it an action adventure, it would be exceedingly boring.
So I made it a geyserlit dovel with older heroes than would be typical. That dovel
was Stage Hands Walk, which derives from the admonition I heard in college that stage hands
walk and never run because running is dangerous. Coupling that with my history on the boards in
a technical capacity and the novel, I developed the username, email address, and website Stagewalker.
All the world is a stage and we are but actors thereon. I worked for Disney for a bit,
joined an audiovisual company, worked the 2002 Olympics, helped open a rodeo arena and supported
hundreds of live events before retiring. From what I understand, my recording technique is
unusual. Professionals who do what we do print out the entire text and mark it up. They note where
they need to emphasize, pause, and where they need to be subdued. Some even mark breaths.
When I was working on my own novels, I knew all that, so I could read the text on a monitor
and know how it should be read since I wrote it. Reading my own books left me with a bad habit.
When I work on a LibriVox project, I prepare a script in Word from the original scan. The
Gutenberg scans are relatively free of errors, but the scans from archive.org and others are not.
They need considerable attention to render them into a form that I can use. I compare the text
version offered with the photographic version to prepare a reading script. Once I have done that,
however, I only read the work once. That is not quite as arrogant as it sounds. If I mispronounce
word, a frequent occurrence, I immediately back up, use audacity's punch and roll function,
and redo the phrase, sentence, or even the paragraph that I am dissatisfied with. The idea
that one can read more than a few sentences without stopping or breathing is a complete fallacy.
Then, when I have finished the recording, I edit it. The first step of the edit process is to run
a macro that removes some of the silences, normalizes the loudness, and reduces the peaks.
My recording booth is quiet enough that I do not have to deal with background noise.
The macro provides an analysis that indicates whether the resultant recording will conform to
the LibriVox standards. The next step of the edit process involves reading the original
photographic scan while listening to the recording. I take out long pauses, focal noises,
and check for errors. I make a list of the errors and record the corrections.
Edit the corrections into the original, run the macro again, and we are done.
Typically, I plan that an hour of finished text will take four to five hours to complete.
As to why I do this, we will leave that for another day.
Thanks for your contribution, Bob. Up next, we're going to hear from Kaviott. What's your thoughts?
Our focus on LibriVox, I think, has always been pretty solitary.
We tend to record in bedrooms, back rooms, closets, even the occasional studio, and apart
from some communication in the forum, or even more rarely, a note from a grateful listener.
Most of us go on like that all the time. The forum is a great place to glean information,
but we are still alone. In fact, I've had exactly one experience where a small group of us under
Trisha G's guiding hand recorded a short play together. On went all the cameras, and I recall
looking at these unfamiliar faces, but whose voices I had heard in the catalogue. We were all
recording from our homes, all at the same time, and sending the unedited recordings to her.
But the only thing I took away from it was how much fun it had been. For this one recording,
we were all together, laughing and joking as we fell over our lines. I'd love to do that again.
I suspect the editing must have been murder. Certainly improved communications would be
of extreme value where we use an actual chat room or video conferencing to give the tutorials
to those members in the community who want to get better at recording, or using the tools
like Audacity to make better recordings. I know things like that appear on places like YouTube,
but talking to a real person about a real problem you have is always better.
Thank you for your contribution, caveat. Up next, we have Marissa Desits. What is your thoughts?
My experience with the LibriVox Facebook group has been positive on the whole. I use Facebook
inconsistently. Sometimes I'm on it for several days and post multiple times per day, and then I
may not post anything for two to three days at all. So as a result, I may not interact as much as I
can with the community. When a project that I've contributed to is added to the catalog, I like
to post about it on my own page. I usually do this via Instagram, which allows me to post both there
and on Facebook simultaneously. I don't know how many other LibriVox volunteers do this,
but if so, I would like us to be able to see posts on each other's pages and possibly promote them
on our own pages as well. I'm not too familiar with Discord, but I would be willing to learn to
use it to connect with others in the LibriVox community. I know that a lot of the podcasts
that I listen to and also some of the YouTube channels that I watch regularly have Discord
servers through which their fans and followers can connect. Now, those often are linked to paid
memberships for the podcast or YouTube channel either through Patreon or through that platform.
I'm not sure what kind of opportunities Discord offers that don't require payment or subscription,
but I do think it's worth looking into because I think that the benefits might be helpful for
members of the LibriVox community. Also, I think LibriVox could reach a larger and more diverse
audience on Instagram. As I've already mentioned, I post about LibriVox on my own Instagram page,
but when I've looked for a LibriVox presence on Instagram, although I have seen a few other
pages and a few audiobook communities mention it, I haven't noticed a dedicated LibriVox
presence on Instagram. Instagram has a number of large book and audiobook communities in general,
so I think it would be fantastic for LibriVox to establish a presence there and allow new and
existing users to come together and discuss and promote LibriVox projects. Thank you for your
contribution, Marissa Desets. I've really enjoyed hearing people's contributions so far, and I'd
like to add my bit into it. I really think having consistent community events would be key to keeping
the LibriVox community more close-knit. Also, setting up a Discord or a similar platform would
help the community engage in a more streamlined way, I believe. Alright, to wrap things up,
here is a blast from the past, going back to 2007 with Jim Mulwatt speaking on the topic of
community podcast contributions. This clip is from the 52nd LibriVox podcast.
I think that there are quite a lot of people at LibriVox that are quite happy to supply
pieces for the podcast, but are embarrassed about the sort of personal way of talking.
It's talking in your own voice, and this is quite scary for a lot of people. I've had a few emails on
this that sort of talking in your own voice to as many people as this talks to, and it's a lot of
people, can be very, very daunting indeed. Now, if you're recording a chapter of your book,
then you're talking in the author's voice, and that's fine. It's your voice that's doing it,
but you're doing it through someone else. Actually, to sit up here in front of the microphone and
use your own words, your own voice, your own feelings, your own attitudes is extremely
daunting. And so, unfortunately, we have a lot of these wonderful people at LibriVox with these
wonderful voices and very talented people are a little bit nervous about coming online to do
the podcast. All right, that's the end of the discussion for today's topic, but before we go,
we have a blooper reel made by Shrimpfish that is sure to give some giggles.
MungoJerry311 wrote, How hard is it to say acts?
So life went on at last in peace till the acts of...
Come on. Till the acts of...
That's not that hard. Till the acts of Bonaparte.
Till the acts of Bonaparte.
ShelleyW wrote, This is a new twist, too. It doesn't work if you don't plug it in.
I was trying to get started recording, kept clicking the button, and nothing was happening.
Tried restarting, even vacuumed the room because I was feeling guilty about how long it had been.
Finally, I went to my husband and had him come take a look. This is what happened.
It worked for me.
What? What? What the...
Phil, what button were you pushing? Me, the green arrow.
MightyFelix wrote, When you've been reading one unnecessarily long and complex sentence after
another, and you suddenly become aware that you're in the middle of yet another one,
and you have no idea where this sentence is going or how it's structured.
In consequence of this opening of his eyes, the youth recoiled with dismay from the sacrilegious
mockery of which he had been guilty in meditating the presumption of teaching holy things of which
the soul sign that he knew, anything was now afforded by this same recoil.
KevinS wrote, My cat, suggesting rather forcefully that he should be fed.
Leaving it to thee to choose our inheritance and to order all our affairs.
M-Pine-Dag wrote, Discontent and unhappy of being unable to say contented and happy.
The wonder of all is that the people generally were contented and happy.
That the people were... that the people were generally...
That the people generally were contented. Why can't I read this section?
Quarter-Tone wrote, Plains which swept spectacularly low is kind of a tongue twister.
Plains which swept... Plains which swept spectacularly low.
Plains which swept spectacularly low over Grand Central Parkway to the runway,
their throttled engines coughing loudly in the closeness of the night.
Man, the struggle is real for LibriVots volunteers.
Thanks so much for listening to this episode of the LibriVots Community Podcast,
and a big thank you to everyone who shared their stories, ideas, and creativity.
If you'd like to help with future podcasts or even create your own, visit the other
LibriVots Projects thread on the forums. Keep reading, keep recording, and keep connecting.
This has been your host, Keri, and remember, the LibriVots Community Podcast is in the
public domain. Thanks for joining us.
